Robby joined the Institute for Telecommunications Research at the University of South Australia in April 2011 after completing his PhD at the University of Queensland.  Since joining our Institute, he has made a significant impact both in terms of traditional academic success (publishing papers in top-ranked journals and high quality teaching), and also in terms of contributions to industrial projects.



ESTABLISHING OR STRENGTHENING RESEARCH COLLABORATION WITH EITHER INDUSTRY OR ACADEMIA

In 2013 he successfully applied for an ARC linkage project with Adelaide based vehicular communications company Cohda Wireless. Cohda is a world leader in vehicular communications hardware.  Robby is working directly with engineers at Cohda wireless to build radar imaging algorithms into Cohda's existing communications hardware.  Cohda wireless's hardware is licensed by General Motors and is set to revolutionise car travel in the near future.



RESEARCH OUTPUTS, BOTH ACADEMIC AND/OR APPLIED

Robby was a key member of the team working on a AUD12 Million project designing a satellite communications system for retrieval of sensor data from remote locations. Robby made significant breakthroughs in signal acquisition and channel parameter estimation that were central to the system’s operation. These novel results (signal processing algorithms) were implemented (by Robby) and successfully demonstrated in both aircraft and satellite field trials. This project won the prestigious Wireless Innovation Forum technology of the year 2013 prize (the runner up was NASA). As a result of the work conducted in this project, Robby has not only submitted several journal papers, he is also co-inventor on three patent applications:

R. G. McKilliam and A. Pollok and B. Cowley. Carrier phase and amplitude estimation for phase shift keying using pilots and data. International patent PCT/AU2013/001464. Dec. 2013

R. G. McKilliam and A. Pollok and B. Cowley. Synchronisation using pilots and data. International patent PCT/AU2013/000139. Dec. 2013

A. Grant, D. Haley, R. G. McKilliam, W. G. Cowley, T. Chan. Multi-Access Communication System. International patent PCT/AU2013/001079. Sep 2013

D. Haley, J. Buetefuer, A. Grant, W. Cowley, G. Lechner, I. R. Land, R. G. McKilliam, A. Pollok, L. M. Davis, R. R. Luppino, A. Barbulescu. Communication System and Method. International patent PCT/AU2013/001078. Sep. 2013

A. Grant, D. Haley, D. Lawrie, R. G. McKilliam, W. Cowley, L. M. Davis. Channel Allocation in a Communication System. International patent PCT/AU2013/000895. Aug. 2013

While making significant contribution to projects at the Institute for Telecommunications Research and taking on a substantial teaching role at the School of Engineering, Robby has also continued his own personal research into connections between number theory and statistics.  This has resulted in a number of publications, primarily in A* journals.  In total has has published 14 journal papers (12 and first author) and 17 conference papers (10 as first author) since 2008.  The vast majority (10 journal papers and 8 conference papers) have been published during the last 3.5 years he has worked at the Institute for Telecommunications Research.  His list of publications is available in the attached curriculum vitae.

Based upon the quality of his research Robby has been invited to present at various national and international workshops and conferences over the last 4 years:

Workshop on interactions between number theory and wireless communication, University of York, United Kingdom, 2014.

International Symposium on the Mathematical Theory of Networks and Systems (MTNS), Melbourne University, Australia, 2012.

Australian Communications Theory Workshop (AusCTW), Victoria University, New Zealand, 2012.

Australian Communications Theory Workshop (AusCTW), Melbourne University, Australia, 2011.



RESEARCH SUPERVISION

Robby has graduated one PhD student in 2013 (Dr Jeewani Kodithuwakku) and is currently supervising one other (Mr Assad Akhlaq).



COMMUNITY AND INDUSTRY ENGAGEMENT AND LEADERSHIP

Robby consistently serves the engineering community by reviewing papers for top-level international journals and conferences such as:

IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing 
IEEE Transactions on Information Theory 
IEEE Transactions on Communications 
IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems 
IEEE Signal Processing Letters 
IEEE International Conference on Acoustics Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP)  
IEEE International Conference on Communications (ICC)  
ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms (SODA) 
Regular reviewer for the American Mathematical Society's Mathematical Reviews (2009 - present)

He is also engaged with the organisation of international and national conferences:

IEEE International Conference on Acoustics Speech and Signal Processing (2015) -- Technical Programme Commitee

IEEE Information Theory Workshop (SSP) 2014 -- Finance Chair 

International Symposium on Information Theory and its Applications (ISITA) 2014 -- Local Finance Chair 

Australian Communications Theory Workshop (AusCTW) 2013 -- Technical Programme Chair 

Australian Communications Theory Workshop (2012) -- Technical Programme Commitee

Defense Applications of Signal Processing Workshop (DASP) 2011 -- Publications Chair

Robby make a substantional contribution to teaching at the School of Engineering. He is course developer, coordinator, and lecturer for the Signals and Systems EEET3041 course at the University of South Australia in 2013 and again in 2014. This course had a troubled history prior to 2013. It had passed through a number of different lecturers in the 5 years previous to 2012. Robby volunteered to take the course in 2013. He designed a set of lecture notes and practical and theory exercises. The 2014 iteration of this course has just completed and the course material can be viewed at:

www.itr.unisa.edu.au/~mckillrg/signalsandsystems/

Comment from students during course evaluation:

“Relaxed, easy going method of teaching. Helpful when asked. One of the best junior lecturers I've experienced. Robby would be a good asset for UniSA to keep employed.”

“Robby gives some of the clearest explanations that I've ever had from a lecturer. Where there is relevant background material, he covers it, but then is able to simplify everything down to understandable terms. I don't think I ever expected to understand the Laplace transform so easily!”

“The approach to tutorials was excellent in the fact students were encouraged, if not provoked, to participate in solving the set questions.”

“Very good demonstrations of how theory and practice are related.”

“It felt as if he was one of the students helping us out, rather than a teacher telling us what to do.”

“Robby is very cool lecturer. This allow the student to easily approach him and ask question. [sic]”

The 2014 iteration of the course currently has a teacher evaluation score of 63.69 and a course evaluation score of 55.

